The put operation is meant to update a resource.
A rest API defines many operations that can manipulate a resource.
Get to retrieve their resource post creates one, put updates a resource and delete delete it.
In this lesson, we will focus on the put operation.
In order to update a contact, we expect the consumer to initiate a put request so we can use the put
mapping annotation to map this request to a handler method.
The path that the consumer specifies will contain an ID variable.
Because we need the ID to know which contact to update.
And when we update a contact, we're going to send back the updated resource as well as the status code.
So here we can say public response entity.
And we're going to send back the updated resource for confirmation.
I'm going to call this handler method.
Update contact.
We can access the path variable of ID over here.
And we also expect the consumer to send us the JSON data that's needed to update the resource.
We can serialize the contents of that JSON.
Into a Java object using the request body annotation.
And now inside the interface, we're going to force the implementation to override an update function.
So we'll say void, update, contact.
String ID.
Contact.
Now in the implementation, we're going to have to override the update function.
And you can just say contact, repository, dot, update, contact.
And here we can pass in the index of that contact.
And now back inside the controller, we're going to update the resource that matches this ID.
So we'll say contact service.
Dot update contact.
Updating the contact with the matching ID.
All right.
Now let's have a look at the the list of 200 status codes.
Which one do you think we should send back?
I think in this case, let's not overthink it.
200 seems reasonable.
90% of the time you're going to be sending back a status of 200.
It's the most common.
We got your request and it was successful.
So we'll go back here and return a new response entity.
That encapsulates the data we want to send back.
In this case, I want to send back the updated resource as confirmation to the user that we did in fact
make the update and we'll send back a status of 200.
Okay.
Let's try it out.
I'll run my app in debug mode.
Oh, wrong mode.
I'll put breakpoints on every setter.
Now.
I already have them set up.
Cool.
So the first thing we have to do is actually make a post request in order to have some data inside of
our data store.
So I will go ahead and create a resource of John Snow.
Stepping through that and go here.
And copy the ID value.
This is very important.
So it's going to create a contact resource with the following ID and save it inside of our contact array
list.
All right, now we need to make a put request.
Now, the Yuri identifies the location of the resource.
We want to locate the resource with the following ID make sure to remove the string quotes.
Och this is the resource that we want to update and contact that we want to update it with.
We want to represent it using JSON.
So remember that our empty constructor is going to auto generate an ID, but we do not want the ID of
the resource we're updating to change.
So we're going to make sure to include an ID key value pair as well.
So we'll say ID.
Is equal to the original ID.
And so what that is going to do is ultimately invoke the set ID setter, which will override the auto
generated ID value with the one that we get from the JSON data packet.
Here we have the name, the phone number.
Okay, we're good.
Now, I believe the original phone number was this.
So let's change it up.
Let's update John Snow's phone number to nine, eight, six, five.
Go ahead and make a pitch request.
So spring boots received our put request.
And the first thing it does is it creates a new object of the contact class.
Using your empty constructor, it auto generates the ID value.
Now this auto generated ID is going to get overridden by the ID we passed in inside the JSON.
And just like that, our resource is able to retain its original ID.
The remaining contents of our request are serialized into our object, such that name invokes the set
name setter and its corresponding value is passed in.
Phone number invokes the set phone number setter.
And if we go back, we see that the John Snow resource was actually updated with a status of 200 K because
after we performed the update we fetched that same resource and indeed it was updated.